ASSIGNMENT -05
NAME:NAKUL MAHLATHKAR
USN:ENG24CY0037
SECTION: “A”
ROLL NO: 7

1.what is a shell in linux OS?how many catagories of shell currently exist in Linux?why bash is very popular in Linux distribution?
ANS:
A shell is a command-line interpreter that provides in the interface between the user and kernal.It takes user commands, interpts them and executes them.
->categories of shells in linux:
  Bourne shell family:sh,bash,ksh,zsh,dash
   C Shell family:csh,tcsh
Bash is very popular because:
   it is default shell in most Linux distribution.
   supports command history , auto -completion,scripting  features and portability.
Backward-compatibilty with Bourne shell.
2. what does the ls -Z command  display?
ANS:
It display SELinux security contexts like user ,role,type and level of files and directories.
Eg:
-rw-r—r--. Root Root unconfined_u:object_r:admin_home_t:s0 file.text
3.write a command to list all hidden files un current dictionary?
ANS:
ls -a


4.diffrence between hard link and soft links?
ANS:
Feature	Hard Link	Soft Link (Symbolic Link)
Points to	Actual file data on disk (inode)	File name/path
Works across FS?	No	Yes
File deleted?	Data remains until all hard links are deleted	Becomes broken ("dangling link") if target is deleted
Created with	ln	ln -s

5.A file has permission -rwxr-x—x. Explain who can read,write, and execute it?
ANS:
owner(rwx)->read,write,execute
Group(r-x)->read,execute
others(--X)->execute only

6.write a command to change the group ownership of a file data.txt to group staff?
ANS:
In Bash:
Chgrp staff data.txt

7.why is it dangerous to give 777 permissions to a file? Explain with an example .
ANS:
777 means read and write execute permission for everyone (owner, group)
Danger:Any user can modify,delete or excute the file(security risk).
Example:If a script backup dot SH hash 777, any user could edit it to run malicious commands  and if root executes it system could be compromised

8.Difference between apropos (man -k) and whatis (man -f)?
ANS:
Whatis ->shows a one-line description of a command.
Apropos->searches all man page descriptions for a Keyword.

9.write a command to redirect the error output of a command to a file named error.log?
ANS:
In bash:
Command 2> error.log
Example:
Ls /fakepath 2> error.log

10.How can you use the tee command to append output to a file instead of overwriting it?
ANS:
In bash:
Command | tee -a filename
Example:
Ls | tee -a output.txt
